Hosting on AZURE


  AZ-900 EXAM
    Can take the exam to be Microsoft Azure certified.
    IT people know this doesnt mean a whole lot.  But HR people like the looks of another certification.
    You can take it but dont have to.


    There is a SQL on Azure that is different from SQL on machines

Every service here is the same in AWS and Google.
    Azure does have a unique service Quantum Computing.. can experiment if we want not a bid deal.


Cloud is anything outside your reach.
Private cloud is dynamic and configurable outside your reach.
    You dont have to buy a new server, unpack it.

Microsoft Data Center built in Boydton, VA.  US East.  
    its a small city and the datacenter is bigger than the town.  Million or more servers.
    expanding to US East 2, since they ran out of capacity. And now US EAST 3.
    Millions of servers inside each building.
     --search azure data center and you see the rows and rows.


IoT - internet of things
    like thermostats connected
    ring doorbell
    anything that sends data and rarely receives it.

AI is not really AI
    its really pattern recognition and machine learning.
    Machine learning will detect patterns the person will not.
    More marketing and hollywood than real intelligence.
        example of widgets - 50 good ones and 50 pictures of bad ones. If you show the machine a picture
        of another widget it will tell you if its good or bad by the picture.

Shared Responsibility
Been writing applications for one computer or server
in reality we need redundancy multiple servers, and multiple users.
We can then rent cloud computing that will have the servers, redundancy, etc for us.

SaaS or PaaS or IaaS    --Graph on Module 1.
        ==as a service.
    Accounts and identities
    Identity and directory infrastructure
        user names and passwords, instead of being your fault it would be Microsofts or whomevers fault
            and they spend millions if not billions to ensure they are safe.
    
    IaaS -infrastructure as a server is basically a Virtual machine. renting the Infrastructure.
            go out to Azure and rent a VM set it up the way you want and Test app, then shut it off boom done.

    PaaS -Platform as a Service they take on more responsibility.
                    renting an environment
                    You manage Data & Access and Applications.
                    Cloud provider managers everything else.

    SaaS -Software as a Service, pay per user -renting the software.
                                sign up with personal accounts.
                                simply access it through web or API
                                Cloud provider managers most everything.
                                
                    Microsoft teams, SQL server, etc is actually your data, no co-copy clauses.

    Go out to wikipedia as a Service.  There are many Examples. 

DEFINE CLOUD MODELS (in book)
Public Cloud
    Microsoft Azure.  Azure Portal.

Went through and created a virtual machine
    create a virtual machine on portal.  Sub Visual Studio. 
        Resource group --AZ900BC for bootcamp.
        Name - bigdevmachine
        Region -you can put it anywhere (datacenter)
        Security -standard
        Image -defaults to Linux Servers since its free.  Windows costs more.
                got to the store search for images.  
                Visual Studio -selected 2022.  If you dont find what you want select the OS and install it.
        Size -size of the machine.
                as long as you remember to turn it off when done it doesnt cost the full monthly amount.
                it would be the $280.32/m but then divide for hourly cost and multiply by the hours and days you work on it.


Azure Speed Test -website.
    how long does it take data to get to the data center?

Hybrid Cloud has chart comparing all 3.  Public, Private, and Hybrid.

Multi-Cloud 
    why limit to Azure, you can use Azure and AWS.

Azure Arc 


Scalability

Vertical Scaling is a bigger box or bigger computer.  Scale it up or down in size.
Horizontal Scaling is more servers for redundancy.

    Anything in cache, shopping carts in one server move to another server? 
    ie. amazon cart in a server and that data center goes down, does it move over to the other data center/server??



Creating a Virtual machine somewhere
    powershell  new-azvm
        it asks for name of machine and credentials user & password.
    then starts building the VM using defaults and takes a while.

    You can script it further to select other items by writing a longer command line.

    if you go to the web and fill in the info, it calls the Azure Web Services
    if you go through powershell it calls the Azure web services.
    You could write C# code to build a VM, its the same type of Web API.

    new-azvm -Name vm2 -ResourceGroupName MyDemo -Location EastUs -VirtualNetworkName vm1network
            then asked him for credentials again and started building.

    You can go back to Azure portal and manage each maching righ there.

Get-Command *-az* | measure
Get-Command *-azvm* | measure


Azure Portal - App Services
Create Web App - platform
    sub visual studio enterprise sub
    resource AZ900BC
    Name is the website name - some are taken.
    publish code
    runtime stack .Net6 LTS
    OS -windows or linux.
    location -East US.

Deployment has GitHub
    you can actually deploy your code from Github to Azure test site.
    Network config - might build a custom network of other database & services.
    Monitoring -nothing righ tnow
    Tags - organization.  name development and value saleswebsite
            helps organize costs, what was spent in development on Azure or production.

Then showed costs.. wants free.
    Went back to App Services and changed the SKU and SIZE
        clicked Dev/Test and FREE.
        Free version does not support the ability to scale out.

built MVC -model view controller web page in visual studio 
Can right click solution and select Publish or project publish.

Document to show publish a web api

Login should be a Post and not a Get function.

Mostly will use Platform as a Service.

Azure has so many features just Search for them
    Can do Database there.
    searched database and chose SQL Databases
    (not called Sql Server, thats what we downloaded)
    Create another database.  Select all of the typical stuff from prior.
    DB name, select server
    Authentication - use Azure active directory.. maybe but would use   
        SQL Auth for our databases we created.
    Workload environ - development

    Compute + Storage;
    Configure service and compute tier
    DTU's basic. 4.90/month.

    redundancy
        locally -is 3 copies in the same section of servers. If a fire happens you could lose all 3.
        zone -is same building ish but has different cooling / zone of servers.
        geo -will put 3 copies in east and 3 copies in West.

    Additional settings
        use existing data - none is let C# scaffold or create the database.

This was ALL software as a service.  Did not do much else.

Then write connectionstring going to be longer - mikesmodelairplanes.database.windows.net/ 
    instead of local host.
    left hand side has section for Connection Strings.
        then can pick.. ADO.Net, JDBC, ODBC, PHP, Go.
        copied ADO.Net, pasted into notepad or VSC
            can delete default options like security.
            and can paste the remaining string in VSB -Sql object explorer
            connect to new database
            past in the server name.. tcp:mikesmodelairplanes.database.windows.net
            enter in username then password.

            Didnt connect.
            Back to Azure Overview --> set server firewall at top
                add ipv4 address.

            Then Database Name shows up for the connection for Sql object explorer.

Software as a Service is Azure hosting, Azure database, etc.
        Teams and office 365 are all Software as a Service.
        Even a Databse on Azure.


Azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/

    can choose AI + machine learning with Computer Vision.  
            show it pictures of cute kittens and ugly dogs.. then say we dont want ugly dogs.
            the machine will scan pictures and allow cute kittens and block ugly dogs.

    Text to Speech to add.. 
    tons of stuff.. analytics 
    containers -kubernetes will manage servers,etc.
    SQL Database.
    Active Directory is on there - the first 50 accounts are free.

check out azure quantum computing tutorials

After lunch create a Azure free account.
    once it expires we can create an Azure trial account.
    a credit to use for 30 days.
        search the Azure Free list.

    after 12 months it will cost money and you could put a limit even $0.
    search Azure Trial for more info.


Azure Physical Infrastructure
    always want to create redundancy
    using Region Pairs like US East 1 and US West 1.

    Sovereign Regions
        not only US Gov or China regions that are restricted
        but could be local laws, Germany requires german employees data be contains in Germany only.
        So you need that region.

Azure Management Infrastructure

    Management 
    resources
    subscription resources
    management groups and 
    then subscriptions.

COMPUTE and Networking Services

    VM -> he uses Oracle VM VirtualBox.  A great local VM.
    in DataCenter either Microsoft Virtual V or VM Ware.
        control over OS.  You can have a server hosting Windows or Linux.
    
        You could build a VM to test windows 7.  Not going to buy a laptop or pc with it.
            or Linux.
    
    VM Scale sets
        doesnt quickly scale up or down since it has to copy the hard drive.
    VM availability sets
        update domain - groups by VM's rebooted at the same time to apply an update.
                availability set will change so they are not all in same update on tuesday at 2pm.
                there is a 30 minute timer before the next domain starts update.
        fault domain - group by common power source or network switch.
            availability set will split your VMs across up to 3 fault domains.
            helps protect against power or network failure

    VM is basically a disk drive and config file. Basically upload disk image and config file or  
        config in portal.
    
AZURE CLI
    runs everywhere, Windows, macOS, Linux.
    The issue/con is that it only works with Azure.

PowerShell
    Windows at first only. Added MacOS, Linux.
    -Mike uses PowerShell as he has to integrate data from multiple points or sources.

Azure Kubernetes Video
    Talks about containers and kubernetes.
    how kubernetes works
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=daVUONZqn88

CONTAINERS
    containers are a virtualization environment.
    if you want to host VM's you need a big computer & windows server
    containers are more effecient as the client and host are both running linux, 
    you dont need it on each VM.  Just one install.

 --  Visual Studio knows how to publish to containers!
        publish to Docker Container Registry.

    instead think about can I publish this into a container and linux container.

ServerLess Computing (aka FUNCTIONS)
    sits between platform and Software as a Service on the chart.
    in Azure this is a feature called FUNCTIONS.

    Get rid of the Applications tier and replace it with Functions tier.
    Functions = Methods.
        might want to deploy a function to a URL.  Like a Web Service.

    new web API project -many files.  lots of coding, Controllers, Routing, Confirm, etc.
    instead have one with a Function.  a Function and a config. That's it.
    
    AZURE Portal and Function App - Create Function
        Basics
        runtime stack - .Net, but many options showing.
        all the usual.. region, OS, etc.
        OS - use windows, built in editor for the function.
        Plan Type - Consumption(serverless) -the first million calls are free.
        Hosting
        Storage Account -create new. To store functions.
        No networking or monitoring.  
        Create.
        This is an administrative box holding the functions.
            which have to be the same flavor - like Windows OS, etc.

    Left side - Functions.
    You could create the Function in VSB or in the environment.
        created an HTTP trigger
        scroll to bottom - 
            give name.. HTTPTrigger1
            set to Anonymous, so we could run it too.

        click on Code + Test
            shows a built in editor with some limited intellisense.

        Functions can take parameters, pass in data or injecting.
            HttpRequest req, ILogger log -injecting http request.

        Save
        Get function URL

    Did not create the WebAPI project, just created and deployed a Function.
    microservices -> did not create controllers, etc.  Only functions.
        we could paste our WebAPI functions in here and run them.
        Advantage is you spelled something wrong, easy to fix and have deployed
            instead of rebuilding the API and redeploying.
        Con is if you have 50 functions

Web Apps or Application Hosting Options

    App services can host most common app like Web apps, API apps, WebJobs, Mobiel apps.
    build in load balancing.
    
    Mobile apps
        build an app in the phone to call a function, function stored in Azure.
        the app calls the weather, which is stored in SQL database in Azure.


Azure Virtual Networking

    Azure load balancer connects from web to the front end, 
    the front end can access business tier only.
    business tier can access SQL server
    SQL server is not accessable via front end or the web.

    May create a gateway, so azure can communicate on Prem, but no other access.


    Azure IP pricing search shows $0.004/hour.
            we are running out of IP address numbers, so adding costs to reduce usage.

VPN Gateways

    connect datacenters to virtual networks Site to Site connection.
    connect individual devices to virtual networks through point to Site connection.
    connect virtual networks to other virtual networks through a network to network connection.

    data transferred in encrypted private tunnel as it crosses the internet.
    You can deploy only one VPN gateway in each virtual network.
    VPN can be hardware or software.
    Site to Site is datacenters connecting
    Point to Site is individual device to networks

    ExpressRoute failover
        There are unused fiber through out the US. You can rent that fiber space and dedicate it.
        They only use about 2% of the fiber that is buried, it costs nothing to add a ton of fiber
        at time of digging.  So a ton was added.

    
Created a Storage account

    Data protection - soft delete means undo and will keep a copy for 7 days.

    Storage Containers are folders.  Add a container, you add a folder and can make it accessable.
    You will probably create a page/button that says upload image, it will actually upload to 
    the azure storage container.

    Access Tier of HOT is high performance drive like SSD.
        change the tier of 
        Cool will change from HP SSD to DiskDrive and cost less money.
        Archive will move it to a Tape Cartridge and even cheaper.
            will take 7 to 8 hours to take it off the Tape and back to Disk Drive.
            sometimes longer even 15 hours, so the next day.


REVIEW from prior day

IaaS  VM's
PaaS  Web Apps
SaaS  SQL Database, AI ML

AZURE Storage Services in book, Azure Files

Files
    BLOBs   URLs, & API
    Files   as network shares, & API
    Queues  FIFO (first in first out data storage), & API
    Tables  No-SQL, & API     tables store a Key & some JSON data, alternate to existing databases.

Azure Files -support SMB or Server Message Block     

    Storage containers are folders but they do not support sub folders

File Shares allow you to add directory and sub directories.
    you can use the Connect once some are uploaded.
    in Windows you can create a script in PowerShell

Azure allows you to have a local corporate storage that syncs with the azure cloud
    the azure cloud will sync with other branches, so if a branch uploads a new contract
    it will sync into the main corporate headquarters file system drive.

Queue Storage  (first in first out) <one of the cheapest services out there>
    allows things like time clocks for employees to be processed throughout the day.
    company could have thousands or hundreds of thousands from 8am to 9am,
    then nothing until 4 to 5pm.  Putting them into a queue allows the server
    to process them throughout the day instead of buy a large server. 
    Or can have the cloud server process them and rent the server
    taking it offline when not in use and saving a ton more money.

Table


Opened AZURE storage explorer
        So you can connect to azure storage and browse through the storage content.

side note -storage emulator lets you test code against azure in the emulator if you are offline.
then you can change connection string and send it up to azure portal.

Migrating to Azure
    Sync Active Directory -user names, passwords, etc.
    Sync File Shares there instead of move, since get speed of local still.

    Move VMs  (lift & shift)
        stop VM existing locally
        copy diskdrive
        config -move diskdrive to cloud
        create new VM -with image of diskdrive.
            -might have other things to do like connections to the VM.

Storage is CHEAP -> go to Azure storage pricing and pick some options.
    scroll down there are charges for Read & Write operations.

AZ Copy allows you to run scripts that can upload or do something at a specific time.
    like end of the day 3pm script run.

Best way to store user credentials is somewhere else
    using Facebook, Twitter, or GOOGLE
    login via Google they will send a Token which has my name, email, ID.
        take that ID and log it into the SQL Database. Say I havent seen 
        this ID before, sign up and fill out a form. lol.

Azure AD can be used -first 500,000 users are free!
       SSO
       multifactor(MFA) -receive text on phone for login, or thumbprint or face recog.

Zero Trust
    dont grant access to just anyone. and its not auto granted. 
    it has to be granted/approved and assigned.

Azure Vault
    You can store the connection string in the vault and the code calls the vault 
    to retrieve the connection string. 

Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Then Network Rules
Azure Firewall =$10,000/m  costs a Billion dollars a year to support
        has a team of people and AI/Machine learning to prevent attacks.

SQL Injection hacks
    search for photo and they put in pet name [ fido.  ]
    string sql = "select * from pets where name = '" + petname + "'"

    they could put in [ fido'; drop table pets --  ]
    string sql = "select * from pets where name = 'fido'; drop table pets --'
      it could drop the table.
    
    Hackers have no life and will first check select * from users, and see 
    if there is an error, if not they know the table exists and can drop it.
    Or try insert statements.


AZ3166 IOT Developer Kit
    like Adreno or Raspberry Pi
    you can mess around with it, buy sensors that connect to it.
    in Azure write functions that send you text or email about things, 
    like temp or whatever you want.



Creating Tags
    Purpose is organize and filter for reporting
    what resources are being used?

Blueprint
    allows standardize cloud subscription or environment deploymens. 

    Each Component is an Artifact
        like allowed locations for data. ie no vms or data in Germany, or where ever.

    Policy
        all VM's have to be in East US.
        all VM's have to be these 3 standard sizes.
        Storage accounts might be restricted from archiving data since it takes so long to get it back.

    Initiative
        a collection of policies.
        which might be Monitoring.

Azure Cosmos DB
    Has PowerShell or Bash built in and you can use it as such.
    created a vm using get-azvm.

Visual Studio code works in a browser, 
everything will probably move to Cloud & Browser based.

PowerShell is object oriented
    Invoke-RestMethod https://<websitename>.
    $mydata
    Learn PowerShell -its a powerful tool.

Azure Arc
    managing hybrid and multi-cloud environments.
    The one ring to rule them all.
    Manage VM's, Kubernetes clusters, and databases if they are running in Azure.

ARM Template
    VM -> Export Template (down in Automation)
    It provides the Template code.
    ARM Template is predefined VM.

Monitoring and Health

    Application Insights
        Either install an SDK in your application, do a search they have SDKs for everything.
        or use the Application Insight agent.
    
    Insight Agents
        use it to monitor a broad array of information.
            -Request rates, response times, failure rates
            -dependency rates, slow performance
            -page views and load performance reported by users browsers
            -AJAX calls from web pages, including rates, response times, failure rates.
            -User and session counts
            -Performance counters from Windows or Linux server machines such as CUP, Memory, Network usage.

        just cant do it inside of SQL database.
        But webservice calls SQL and can have Ai (app insights)


AZ900 GitHub   --they ahve the instructions on there.
    Or this entire content is in https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/certifications/exams/az-900
    scroll down to the bottom.

AWS also has free trials and free services.
   

Mike Smith also does training and bootcamps.
    out of town the next 2 weeks and in training mostly.
    but will be working and online.