

Look at Engage partners
    coming nov 14.
    work with 5/3, GE, and other companies.

Todd Stoehr

Two interviews following Demo Day on Tuesday the 15th.
Some speed interviews for 16th and
Thursday the 17th there are zoom meetings setup for speed interviews

Western and Southern is the first time they asked to bring dev lead
    and only wanted to interview folks you would want to come on site.

Nick graduated and works at LCS
    wants to come talk to us.


Engage might be a little more technical.

Goal with speed interviews is to land an actual interview.
    Crown equipment -out in the middle of nowhere.
        want people to be close by.
    

Power Message to Annette by next wednesday to put in a power point for us.
    tell her


LinkedIN profile updates
    + instead of bullet points.

    sarwmsn and look at her About section.
    4 dots by Gallup Strengths lists them out under.


Wednesdays -> team link invite from Annette at 10am.  Also available one on one.



Identify key marketable skills
Explore other targets
Identify other potential job titles

--Use other key words, instead of Full Stack Developer.  Like Software Engineer or 
    software developer, on onet it shows ETL??  But you can search other things.

Need to have a goal each week.
Goal this week is to apply for xx jobs, work on utemy class, or push code up.
    -trackable actionable goals to work on.
    -strategy on how to acheive that goal.


Book out What Color is your Parachute??
    comes out with other numbers.

    Least Effective
       
        4% - using internet 
        7% - mailing out resumes to employers at random
        7% - Answering ads in professional or trade journals in your field
        7% - Answering local newspaper ads
        5%-28% - Going to private employment agencies or search firms for help

        10% - job search support groups
        12% - asking a former teacher or professor for job leads
        14% - Going to the state/federal employment office
        22% - participating in 'gig'/freelance opps
            or Going to places where employers pick out workers, such as union halls.

    MOST Effective

        33% - Asking for leads from family, friends, people in teh community.
            --let people know.. talk about it.
                --actively engaged.
        47% - Knocking on the door of any employer, factory, or office that interests you
            whether they are known to have a vacancy or not.
        69% - By Yourself -using the phone book's yellow pages to identify prospective
            employers and then phoning them to ask if they are hiring for the type of position
            you can do and do well.


Take advantage of freelance opportunities to work on something like React.

Older interviewers want to see your pet project. Younger just want to talk about how you did it.

Nick Law -went to interview, say well what have you done.  Capstone.. and what else.      

    They may only take the first 50 applicants and shut the window.
        you can apply but it wont go anywhere.






behearty.co  <software centric platform>

    software developers on it under the Leaderboards.

    Join it and find Annette.
    -priority boards = software engineers
    -sometimes there are opportunities and jobs posted.
        --but probably beyond what we can do.  We wont meet the min reqs.

    -Can check the companies hiring and go to their website.

jobs.ohiomeansjobs.monster.com


        apply for jobs when it says 3 years or less experience
        3-5 years it might be out of scope of what we know.
        if its $90k salary, we might not succeed. 

indeed is least favorite..
    the more people apply the more competing.

Briefly mentioned..
Greg wants a student to create a Red Light, Green Light, and Yellow light.
    so when he is teaching in class it would be anonymous and he would get.

If you apply at Syntox? You must follow up with a call.  
    they wont hire you if you do not follow up with a call.

    --call-- mostly voice mail.  Hey this is Josh Scott.  I did submit my resume for your
        jr. dev role back on whatever date and I am curious where you are in your hiring
        process?

    --gold statement.. where are you in your hiring process.


Whatever community you live in.. got to the chamber.
    look for some companies that could have software developers.


Superpages.com?? might be active.

    IT companies, pittsburg, pa
    software dev companies
    or something.

topworkplaces.com



one guy applied for 45 jobs and got 3 responses.
another guy that is a lazy job seeker.  he has LinkedIn working well and when gets a call.
    but no real other effort.

if you are going to make.. Jan to Jun 2022 Max Salary avg $60k.
    then every week you are unemployed it costs you potentially $1k / week.


O*NET Online
    -skills search
    -related occupations


->under Software Developer
Related Occupations
17-2061.00
Computer Hardware Engineers
15-1241.00
Computer Network Architects
15-1251.00
Computer Programmers
15-1211.00
Computer Systems Analysts Bright Outlook Bright Outlook  
15-1299.08
Computer Systems Engineers/Architects Bright Outlook
15-1242.00
Database Administrators Bright Outlook
15-1243.00
Database Architects Bright Outlook
15-1299.05
Information Security Engineers Bright Outlook
15-1253.00
Software Quality Assurance Analysts and Testers Bright Outlook
15-1254.00
Web Developers Bright Outlook

->went to advanced search and technology skills
Technology search, typed in C#
50 results came up.
    -> weird ones came up that I wouldnt even think of.



Good Repsonses
    At ziprecruiter
    dice
        is a website to be familiar with.
        take off your phone # -> you will get a bazillion calls.


LinkedIn
    ->searched react, pittsburgh, pa

it shows PWC 1 max alumni is there??
-said to apply on their website and not through linkedin.


Pay attention to the news or company events.
    -who is growing or expanding.
    -protiviti -through Robert Half. They are looking to hire 30 in February.

Greater Cincinnati Chamber - www.cincinnatichamber.com
Career InfoNet -www.acinet.org
Hoover's Online www.hoovers.com --must go to library since it costs like $6k /year for access.
Forbes -www.forbes.com/list
Fortune -www.fortune.com
Vault -www.vault.com
Business Courier-www.bizjournals.com/cincinnati



Look this up from my searching along with Annette in class

Preferred:

Previous experience with Automation Anywhere (AA) and/or Microsoft Power Automate is strongly preferred, but not required



Resume
    put your name like JoshScott-9437SoftwareEngineer.
    -keep making little adjustments.

typically 2 weeks to get interview/hired and could be 3 weeks.

Wednesday going to ask for the Employer contact log.
    Are you doing enough?
    Where can we do more?


Huntr.co -> will let us organize job search.
    like an electronic excel sheet for job searching.
    max of 50 
    you can delete old ones to add new ones.


Make sure Facebook is cleaned up or locked down!

LinkedIn is not a replacement for networking, a tool.
    -update job title on linked in
    -turn off looking for work.





SMART Goels

11/28
-goal for resume submission. In a week.
    [50]
-hours spending coding after graduation in a week
    [40]
-challenge us to go to meetups
    braxton brewery meetup in Cincy.



200 = 7 = 1
resumes submitted = interviews = job.


Organize & Rank Employers
    1. Generate your personal marketing plan (200 employers segmented by target)
    2. Rank your targets by A, B, C
        a. A list - companies you would love to work for
        b. B list - companies that would be okay
        c. C list - companies that dont interest you much.
    3. Start with your C list of employers first
        since you dont care, dont want it or need it.  Just practicing.
        if C companies are liking you and people are talking to you.
            bump it up.

Technical interview is a whole new dynamic and could be rough.




Nick Preshaw -LCS


Check their post and if they have specific things in the post, make sure to talk about
them in the interview. 

Plural site - like Khan Academy.
    try to spend an hour or two every week doing that.

Used a cover letter and added the name of the company he applied for.
    alot of people dont do them.  

Ask if they have a mentor and if they are available.
