
Emotional Quotient
    -recognize, understand and manager your own emotions/behaviors.
    -recognize, understand and manager the emotions/behaviors of others.


    Self Awareness
        -ability to detect, interpret, and understand your own thoughts, emotions, 
        behaivors, decisions, and habits in an objective fashion.

        subcats
        -Open Mindedness --willingness to be teachable. Listen and receive feedback
        -Self Knowledge --awareness of your performance, potential, strengths, weaknesses.

    Boy walks on wet cement.mp4 on youtube.

    SCARF
    Status, Certainty, Autonomy, Relatedness, Fairness.

Interviewing
1. Confidence & Presence -dont look down and also dont be over confident.
2. Authenticity -be authentic.
3. Energy -the way you come across.. low energy shows low work quality/speed.
4. Your Emotions - everyone is nervous in an interview, how you handle it.
5. Interviewer's Emotions - reading and mirroring their emotions.
6. Adding Value - 

Top 10 EQ killers
    -Self vs Others focus
    -Myopic Vision
    -Ego and Arrogance --giant egos and so arrogant its all about them and for them.
    -Binary Thinking -black/white, 1's and 0's, dielectics.
    -Confirmation Bias
    -Lack of Objective introspection --self awareness
    -Social/Situational blindness (see #1)
    -Lack of understanding social norms
    -Poor impulse control
    -Lack of Empathy (see #1).

I love to learn, But I hate being taught.
    -Winston Churchill.

In any given moment, we have two options: 
    Step forward into growth or step back into safety."
        -Abraham Maslow


LINKED IN

Successful profiles focus on 
    1. A Great Headshot
    2. An attention-grabbing headline and strong keywords.
    3. Relevant Background, compelling information on your experience.

Experience section or Education section.
List out the bootcamp and technologies..
Example!

    Java/Web Development Student
    MAX Technical Training
    Mar 2018 - May
    Mason, Oh

    Recently graduated from an 11 week java boot camp focusing on full stack development

    Front-End Technologies:
        -HTML 5
        -CSS
        -Bootstrap
        -JavaScript
        -jQuery
        -Angular

    Back-End Technologies:
        -Java
        -Hibernate
        -RESTful Web Services
        -Spring, Spring Boot, SprintMVC
        -Maven

    Database Technologies:



We use Free version, but recruiters will have paid versions seeing what we dont see.


HEADLINE
    -put something that grabs attention.
    -Software developer.. Full Stack Developer?

Open To -> let recruiters know you are looking.

Vaco -> IT Tech jobs across the country
    Vernovis and other similar ones.

Vaco-Jason hamberg
Vernovis -Tony Sammond
Tek Systems-Kristi Beasley


Add Skills

Get Recommendations
    -Greg

Add endorsements in Skills?
Add Media
    -you can upload something or add web link
    -add link to resume?

Dont send more than 40 connection requests in a day
    -flagged as a spammer.


======
Adding & Leveraging Connections

LinkedIN is setup to visibility of your circle of influence.
    dont see anything outside of it
        You -> level 1 -> multipl level 2's -> even more level 3's.
        <1=direct connection> <2=friend of friend> <3=further friend of friend of friend>

Hit enter on Search Bar
    -> then click All Filters and you can filter by a ton of options.
    -> keywords can help you look up people, like title of CEO or director of IT.
    Use it to message someone say, hey I just applied to your company. or something.
    Filters are powerful, but kind of hidden.

Personalize your message
    when send a request to connect.
    Ways to engage.  Send a note if you have a question.
        Dont be afraid to reach out to people.
            she reached out to someone starting own bis, they did 30 
            and responded since they love doing it and like talking about it.

Groups
    Networking groups you can add in.

Status Updates
    Create or curate content (Feedly or Tweetdeck)
    Aks questions to encourage comments
    Comment on other peoples content.

    (only 2% of linkedin people actually share content)


Time Management
    put 30 minute weekly reminder in your calendar for LinkedIn
    Daily send happy birthday or job anniversary
    Weekly-share or like and comment on posts/articles, add quality connections.

Events and Tech Communities

    The Circuit
    Technology First
    Cincy Deliver (agile community)

        Annual-so next year too.
    Cincy Deliver conference 7/2022
    Comspark Conference 9/2022
    Momentum Dev Conf 10/2022


Action Plan

    Turn on Recruiter Notification
    Clean up my profile
    Add 5 good quality connections per week
    Update my status once a week
    Find 5 new people to get to know better per week
    Join 3 groups and become active in those groups. Attend virtual
        networking events of the group.
    Sign up for Hearty
    Connect with Recruiters





