Resume Workshop

9/26 draft must be in to Annettes email




You have 7-10 seconds to convince your reader you have what they need.
Pack the 1st paragraph with your most Critical information.

you want their eye to fall on certain places.

Top Left is most important
    column 1 and row 1 must be full of technologies that are most important

onetonline.org -software developers
    mining for language, look here for information.

check tasks for something that I used to do matching to what I want to do

Look at Software Developer and look at what words you can add in.
Look at previous Job Title and look through to beef up existing resume.


Parking Lot
Software Developer Title vs prior job, to reword prior job duties aligning with new career path

Analyze information to determine, recommend, and plan installation of a new system or modification of an existing system.
--would analyze processes and workflows recommending changes to increase productivity of UW staff.

Confer with data processing or project managers to obtain information on capabilities or limitations
--would confer with managers and processing staff to obtain information on improving capabilities and removing limitations.

Consult with customers or other departments on project status, proposals, or technical issues, such as software system design or maintenance.
--would consult with other departments and customers on the status of different challenges or technical issues that would arise during the process.

Prepare reports or correspondence concerning project specifications, activities, or status.
--would prepare reports for clients and management 

Train users to use new or modified equipment
--would train new underwriters on our systems and train all staff on new systems being implemented.

Supervise and assign work to programmers, technologists and technicians.. Etc.
--would supervise and assign work to underwriters, working with clients and current volume.

Technology Skills
Worked with cloud based data access
Database reporting and management for loan files 



Visual Appeal
-Font 11 for everything else.
    12 for Titles like Experience.
-Arial or Times new Roman
-Add a little color
-No pronouns and remove a or the.
-Header on 2nd Page, page 2 w/phone#

-Objectives are out. Instead use Skill Summary or Professional Profile heading.
    You may title yourself ".Net Developer" or ".Net Bootcamp Grad", pack with best content.
    Preferance is to put skill summary on the cover letter.
-Education -should be listed after your Skill Summary.
-Professional Work Experience - reverse chronological order. Most recent first.
-Use metrics, action verbs, and show what you: Made/Saved/Accomplished/Achieved.

Ask for voucher to take your PSM1. 
    its about $5k or more a year with PSM1.

Volunteer/Community Involvement -also very relevant.
    but religion/hobbies/clubs can be perceived as a conflict of interest!

Send resume how they ask, word or pdf.
    if they dont say, send as PDF.

File name sending to Annette - jscott Software Developer
she will put AB on it, when it goes back AB2, AB3, etc, etc.

Match resume to the job title.  Filename to match their verbiage.
    Application Developer, change it.  Web Developer, etc.

Determine what skills, knowledge, and experience are needed for that target job.
Pack your resume with relevant examples.

Keywords are essential! Study the job posting
    find their language to customize resume for what they are looking for.

Its okay to have more than 1 page resume.  
Tech resumes are often very lengthly as complex projects are described. Use tech terms throughout.

3 references:  2 Professional, 1 Personal.
    First & Last Name
    Business they work at 
    Address of business
    Phone number (only 1, not biz & personal)
    Email Address.

Cover Letter 
    tell them how your background best fits their job.
    
Write a Power Message - will share in class and at demo day. 
 -why software engineer
 -talk about past history a bit

    Hello and thank you for attending today.  My name is Josh Scott and I recently graduated 
    from the Max Technical Training maximum coding bootcamp.  
    To tell you a little something about myself, I am someone who loves learning and building. And I do that with total determination and focus.  To explain further, if I am working on a project, say a program or building a classic car (which I have done); if I come accross a portion that is not working correctly I tend to put all my focus into the issue and will stay up all night, even skip meals until I can get it solved.  If I am going to focus on a project then I am determined to complete it.

    I spent the last 15 years in the financial industry as a mortgage underwriter which is very detailed oriented, analytical and at times quite stressful as a fast paced business environment.  During that time I  




